Add source cluster extension jar page DMT phase 2 [HZ-3949] (don't merge) (#1042)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/migrate/pages/dmt-source-cluster-extension.adoc

= Extending the Source Cluster
:description: To migrate ReplicatedMap metadata and/or CP data structures, you must add the extension JAR provided in the DMT package to the class path in your source cluster. 

{description}

The extension JAR is located at _extension/hazelcast-data-migration-extension-{version}.jar_ in the extracted DMT package. This file is only required when you want to migrate ReplicatedMap metadata and/or CP data structures as described in <<when-to-use,When to Use the Extension JAR>>.

* The extension JAR can only be used with 4.x and 5.x versions of Hazelcast. Earlier versions of Hazelcast are not supported.
* You can use the extension JAR with both Enterprise and Open Source versions.

[when-to-use]
== When to Use the Extension JAR

You can migrate most structures without adding the extension JAR. It is required only if you want to migrate ReplicatedMap metadata and/or CP data structures.

> WARNING: If your source cluster is newer than 5.3.7, you must not use the extension JAR since the APIs in the extension JAR already exists. If you use the extension JAR with a version of Hazelcast that includes the API that replaces the extension JAR, class mismatches and migration failure can occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Do not add the extension JAR if you are using version 5.3.7, or later. Data mismatches and migration failure can occur if you use the extension JAR with a version of Hazelcast that includes the API that replaces the extension JAR.
```

= Extending the Source Cluster
:description: Migration of ReplicatedMap metadata and/or CP structures requires new functionality to be available at the source cluster side. You can extend your source cluster with the help of this page.

{description}

== Introduction

The extension jar is a file named as _hazelcast-data-migration-extension-{version}.jar_ found inside the _extension_ folder in the extracted DMT package. It contains additional functionalities for your source Hazelcast cluster.

* The extension jar is compatible with 4.x and 5.x versions of Hazelcast. 3.x versions are not supported.
* You can use the extension jar with open source or enterprise Hazelcast versions.

== When to Use the Extension Jar

> Depending on which data structures you want to migrate, you may not need the extension jar. 

Author: applied slightly changed because 5.3.7 will have both APIs

The extension jar includes the following functionality:

. List CP structures
. Read ReplicatedMap data + metadata (time to live, creation time and so on). Your source cluster already has functionality to return ReplicatedMap data. The extension jar provides metadata read functionality.

> Therefore, you need the extension jar if one of the following is true:

Author: will actually delete these as they are duplicate data

> * You want to migrate ReplicatedMap metadata and your source cluster version is not newer than "5.3.7". (This API is added to Hazelcast in "5.3.7".)

Author: as said, will be deleted due to duplicate of above info

> * You want to migrate CP structures (IAtomicLong, IAtomicReference, ICountdownLatch) and your source cluster is not newer than "5.4.0". (This API is added to Hazelcast in "5.4.0".) so if your source cluster is newer than "5.4.0", you don't need the extension jar.

Author: as said, will be deleted due to duplicate of above info

> WARNING: Using the extension jar with a Hazelcast versions that already have the API in the extension jar can cause a class mismatch and thus failures in migration. Therefore, don't use the extension jar if your source cluster is newer than 5.3.7 (or 5.4.0 for CP case).

Author: applied slightly differently due to general refactor

== How to Use the Extension Jar

> You can extend your source cluster by gracefully shutting down your cluster members one by one as described in xref:maintain-cluster:shutdown.adoc#graceful-shutdown[Graceful Shutdown, window=_blank] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> For each member in your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the extension JAR, complete the following steps for each member in your cluster:
```

> . Gracefully shutdown the member. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Gracefully shutdown the member, as described in xref:maintain-cluster:shutdown.adoc#graceful-shutdown[Graceful Shutdown].
+
Once the graceful shutdown has completed, the cluster contains one less member but no data loss occurs.
```

> . After graceful shutdown, you will have one less member without any data loss. Add the extension jar to the class path of the JVM. You can use the _user-lib_ folder in your Hazelcast distribution explained xref:clusters:deploying-code-from-clients.adoc#adding-user-library-to-classpath[here, window=_blank].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the extension JAR to the class path of the JVM. 
+
You can use the _user-lib_ folder in your Hazelcast distribution to do this, as described in xref:clusters:deploying-code-from-clients.adoc#adding-user-library-to-classpath[Deploying User Code from Clients].
```
